# Fyyur Project Details
Introduction
Fyyur is a musical venue and artist booking site that facilitates the discovery and bookings of shows between local performing artists and venues. This site lets you list new artists and venues, discover them, and list shows with artists as a venue owner.

Your job is to build out the data models to power the API endpoints for the Fyyur site by connecting to a PostgreSQL database for storing, querying, and creating information about artists and venues on Fyyur.

Overview
This app is nearly complete. It is only missing one thing… real data! While the views and controllers are defined in this application, it is missing models and model interactions to be able to store retrieve, and update data from a database. By the end of this project, you should have a fully functioning site that is at least capable of doing the following, if not more, using a PostgreSQL database:

creating new venues, artists, and creating new shows.
searching for venues and artists.
learning more about a specific artist or venue.
We want Fyyur to be the next new platform that artists and musical venues can use to find each other, and discover new music shows. Let's make that happen!

Tech Stack (Dependencies)
1. Backend Dependencies
Our tech stack will include the following:

A virtual environment provided in the workspace (if working locally, see README)
SQLAlchemy ORM to be our ORM library of choice
PostgreSQL as our database of choice
Python3 and Flask as our server language and server framework
Flask-Migrate for creating and running schema migrations You can download and install the dependencies mentioned above using pip as:
pip install SQLAlchemy
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install postgres
pip install Flask
pip install Flask-Migrate

2. Frontend Dependencies
You must have the HTML, CSS, and Javascript with Bootstrap 3(opens in a new tab) for our website's frontend. If you are working locally, further instructions are contained in the repo README file.

Install Bootstrap 3(opens in a new tab) for the website's frontend:

npm init -y
npm install bootstrap@3

Main Files: Project Structure
  ├── README.md
  ├── app.py *** the main driver of the app. Includes your SQLAlchemy models.
                    "python app.py" to run after installing dependencies
  ├── config.py *** Database URLs, CSRF generation, etc
  ├── error.log
  ├── forms.py *** Your forms
  ├── requirements.txt *** The dependencies we need to install with "pip3 install -r requirements.txt"
  ├── static
  │   ├── css 
  │   ├── font
  │   ├── ico
  │   ├── img
  │   └── js
  └── templates
      ├── errors
      ├── forms
      ├── layouts
      └── pages



Overall:

Models are located in the MODELS section of app.py.
Controllers are also located in app.py.
The web frontend is located in templates/, which builds static assets deployed to the web server at static/.
Web forms for creating data are located in form.py
Highlight folders:

templates/pages -- (Already complete.) Defines the pages that are rendered to the site. These templates render views based on data passed into the template’s view, in the controllers defined in app.py. These pages successfully represent the data to the user, and are already defined for you.
templates/layouts -- (Already complete.) Defines the layout that a page can be contained in to define footer and header code for a given page.
templates/forms -- (Already complete.) Defines the forms used to create new artists, shows, and venues.
app.py -- (Missing functionality.) Defines routes that match the user’s URL, and controllers which handle data and renders views to the user. This is the main file you will be working on to connect to and manipulate the database and render views with data to the user, based on the URL.
Models in app.py -- (Missing functionality.) Defines the data models that set up the database tables.
config.py -- (Missing functionality.) Stores configuration variables and instructions, separate from the main application code. This is where you will need to connect to the database.
Instructions
Understand the Project Structure (explained above) and where important files are located.
Build and run local development following the Development Setup steps below.
Fill in the missing functionality in this application: this application currently pulls in fake data and needs to now connect to a real database and talk to a real backend.
Fill out every TODO section throughout the codebase. We suggest going in order of the following:
Connect to a database in config.py. A project submission that uses a local database connection is fine. For a refresher on setting up Postgres and connecting databases, refer to the SQLAlchemy Basics lesson. When working in the project classroom, the default user is postgres , there is no password, localhost is 127.0.0.0 and the default port for database connections is 5432.
Using SQLAlchemy, set up normalized models for the objects we support in our web app in the Models section of app.py. Check out the sample pages provided at /artists/1, /venues/1, and /shows for examples of the data we want to model, using all of the learned best practices in database schema design. Implement missing model properties and relationships using database migrations via Flask-Migrate.
Implement form submissions for creating new Venues, Artists, and Shows. There should be proper constraints, powering the /create endpoints that serve the create form templates, to avoid duplicate or nonsensical form submissions. Submitting a form should create proper new records in the database.
Implement the controllers for listing venues, artists, and shows. Note the structure of the mock data used. We want to keep the structure of the mock data.
Implement search, powering the /search endpoints that serve the application's search functionalities.
Serve venue and artist detail pages, powering the <venue|artist>/<id> endpoints that power the detail pages.
Data Handling with Flask-WTF Forms
The starter codes use an interactive form builder library called Flask-WTF(opens in a new tab). This library provides useful functionality, such as form validation and error handling. You can peruse the Show, Venue, and Artist form builders in forms.py file. The WTForms are instantiated in the app.py file. For example, in the create_shows() function, the Show form is instantiated from the command: form = ShowForm(). To manage the request from Flask-WTF form, each field from the form has a data attribute containing the value from user input. For example, to handle the venue_id data from the Venue form, you can use: show = Show(venue_id=form.venue_id.data), instead of using request.form['venue_id'].

Acceptance Criteria
The web app should be successfully connected to a PostgreSQL database. A local connection to a database on your local computer is fine.
There should be no use of mock data throughout the app. The data structure of the mock data per controller should be kept unmodified when satisfied by real data.
The application should behave just as before with mock data, but now uses real data from a real backend server, with real search functionality. For example:
when a user submits a new artist record, the user should be able to see it populate in /artists, as well as search for the artist by name and have the search return results.
I should be able to go to the URL /artist/<artist-id> to visit a particular artist’s page using a unique ID per artist and see real data about that particular artist.
Venues should continue to be displayed in groups by city and state.
Search should be allowed to be partial string matching and case-insensitive.
Past shows versus Upcoming shows should be distinguished in Venue and Artist pages.
A user should be able to click on the venue for an upcoming show on the Artist's page, and on that Venue's page, see the same show in the Venue Page's upcoming shows section.
As a fellow developer on this application, I should be able to run flask db migrate, and have my local database (once set up and created) be populated with the right tables to run this application and have it interact with my local postgres server, serving the application's needs completely with real data I can seed my local database with.
The models should be completed (see TODOs in the Models section of app.py) and model the objects used throughout Fyyur.
Define the models in a different file to follow Separation of Concerns(opens in a new tab) design principles. You can refactor the models to a new file, such as models.py.
The right type of relationship and parent-child dynamics between models should be accurately identified and fit the needs of this particular application.
The relationship between the models should be accurately configured, and referential integrity amongst the models should be preserved.
flask db migrate should work, and populate my local Postgres database with properly configured tables for this application's objects, including proper columns, column data types, constraints, defaults, and relationships that completely satisfy the needs of this application. The proper type of relationship between venues, artists, and shows should be configured.
Stand Out
Looking to go above and beyond? This is the right section for you! Here are some challenges to make your submission stand out:

Implement artist availability. An artist can list available times that they can be booked. Restrict venues from being able to create shows with artists during a show time that is outside of their availability.
Show Recent Listed Artists and Recently Listed Venues on the homepage, returning results for Artists and Venues sorting by newly created. Limit to the 10 most recently listed items.
Implement Search Artists by City and State, and Search Venues by City and State. Searching by "San Francisco, CA" should return all artists or venues in San Francisco, CA.
Best of luck with your final project! Fyyur depends on you!

Development Setup
If you choose to work locally, more detailed information regarding setup can be found in the README here(opens in a new tab). Working in the project workspace, follow the instructions below:

Install the dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt
Run the development server:
export FLASK_APP=myapp
export FLASK_ENV=development # enables debug mode
python3 app.py
Verify on the Browser
Navigate to the project homepage in the virtual desktop (by clicking the "Preview" button in the workspace) (opens in a new tab)http://127.0.0.1:3000/(opens in a new tab) or (opens in a new tab)http://localhost:3000(opens in a new tab) or in the browser of your local virtual environment, if you are working locally, use (opens in a new tab)http://127.0.0.1:5000/(opens in a new tab) or (opens in a new tab)http://localhost:5000(opens in a new tab).

Once you're ready, you can submit your project directly from the Project Workspace page or on the Project Submission page.

Troubleshooting:
If you encounter any dependency errors, please ensure that you are using Python 3.9 or lower.
If you are still facing the dependency errors, follow the given commands:
using pip install --upgrade flask-moment
Using pip install Werkzeug==2.0.0
Using pip uninstall Flask and then pip install flask==2.0.3

Rubrica Metrics
Data Models

Rubrica do Projeto: Backend Developer with Python

Use esta rubrica para entender e avaliar os critérios do projeto.

Modelos de Dados

Implementação de modelos de dados em formato relacional e normalizado.

Tipos de dados corretos para cada campo.

O objeto Shows relaciona Artistas e Locais, com o tipo de relacionamento correto (um-para-um, um-para-muitos ou muitos-para-muitos).

Conexão dos modelos de dados a um banco de dados.

O código cria uma conexão local com o PostgreSQL.

Demonstração de domínio da normalização de banco de dados.

O modelo Shows possui chaves estrangeiras corretamente definidas.

Os modelos Artists e Venues estão em terceira forma normal (3NF).

Demonstração de domínio do SQLAlchemy.

O código usa sintaxe do SQLAlchemy para definir completamente os modelos.

Consultas SQL precisas são envolvidas por comandos SQLAlchemy, por endpoint da API, definindo modelos de dados e servindo respostas esperadas.

Uso mínimo ou inexistente de SQL bruto exceto quando necessário.

SQL

Uso de sintaxe SQL para selecionar registros no banco de dados.

O código traduz corretamente comandos SQLAlchemy para seleção de registros em comandos PostgreSQL equivalentes.

Uso correto de comandos SELECT e WHERE para executar buscas.

Uso de SQL e SQLAlchemy para junção de tabelas relacionais e consultas associadas.

JOIN é usado corretamente para executar consultas associadas.

O código realiza junção de tabelas dos modelos existentes para selecionar Artistas por Locais onde já se apresentaram, preenchendo a seção “Performances Passadas” na página do Local.

O código realiza junção para preencher a seção “Locais Apresentados” na página do Artista.

Equivalentes corretos nas consultas ORM do SQLAlchemy para todas as instruções SQL da aplicação.

Criação de registros únicos em SQL.

O código conecta os formulários Nova Venue e Novo Artista ao banco via SQLAlchemy, inserindo registros após envio do formulário.

Uso de comandos SQL equivalentes ao comando do SQLAlchemy, como INSERT INTO.

Restrições SQL corretas para garantir unicidade e campos obrigatórios, gerando erro se regras forem violadas.

Qualidade da Aplicação & Deploy

Capacidade de construir uma base de código bem organizada.

O código está desacoplado entre arquivos relevantes.

Bom uso de comentários para pontos de dúvida e código auto-explicativo.

Encapsulamento do código de consulta nos locais adequados (Modelos e endpoints API).

Criação de web app funcional, que constrói e executa sem erros.

Nenhum erro de build ou compilação ao rodar o código e lançar o app.

Usuário pode buscar dados no banco via Search.

Usuário pode visualizar página de Local com informações do banco.

Usuário pode visualizar página de Artista com informações do banco.

Usuário pode criar novo Local via página New Venue.

Validação impede submissão de formulários inválidos (por exemplo, enum de estado incorreta ou campos obrigatórios ausentes).

Usuário pode criar novo Artista via página Nova Artist.

Validação impede submissão de formulários inválidos (campos obrigatórios ausentes).

Usuário pode clicar no local de um show futuro na página do Artista e vê-lo também como próximo show na página do Local.

Sugestões para Destacar o Projeto

Implementar disponibilidade de horários para artistas, permitindo agendar shows somente em dias/horários disponíveis. Bloquear agendamento que viole essa disponibilidade.

Mostrar artistas e locais listados recentemente na homepage, ordenando pelo mais recente e limitando a 10 itens.

Exibir álbuns e músicas do artista na página do Artista.